---
title: About
slug: "/about"
---

Hi, I'm Elliot Jackson, a half English half Canadian software builder based in
France. Currently, I freelance under the moniker of [In the
Field](http://inthefield.co), where the bulk of my client work is iOS-centric
these days, be that UI design, UX evaluation, app development, or API
development. Prior to freelancing, I worked at Realmac Software.

Away from the computer, I play in the back row for my local rugby team,
enjoy powerlifting, and spend an inordinate amount of time looking for
tennis balls my Springer Spaniels have lost.

If you like [my work](http://inthefield.co/resume), you can [hire
me](mailto:elliot@elliotekj.com) for your next project.

#### About this website

elliotekj.com has evolved a lot since I started writing here in 2013. Its
format has shifted from articles, to link-posts, to micro-posts, and back to
articles. Its content, once design-focused, now has a higher proportion of
programming-related posts.

On the technical side, it's been powered by Jekyll, Hugo, Middleman, Wordpress,
Tumblr, and even a brief stint as manually written HTML in the early days. It's
been hosted by OVH, Lithium, GitHub Pages, Netlify, and Linode. It's been
updated via git commit, [Google
Drive](/2017/08/03/google-drive-and-hugo-the-new-publishing-setup-for-this-blog),
and rsync.

As you can probably tell, this has always been a place for me to experiment
with new things. In its current form, the website is back on Netlify and
generated by Gatsby, which I hadn't had a chance to use before. It builds off
of [LekoArts'
work](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-themes/tree/master/themes/gatsby-theme-minimal-blog)
and I'm gradually tweaking things to my liking.

Barring a couple of posts that were originally written for the Realmac blog,
elliotekj.com has always been written in my spare time. While my writing is my
own, any and all code in my posts is in the [public
domain](https://unlicense.org/).
